# Specific Aim 4: Evaluate novel planetary spacesuit boot design for fit, comfort, and mobility

## Introduction

The pressurized boot prototype developed in Specific Aim 3 will need to be validated to test the main hypothesis of this thesis: a spacesuit boot designed with dynamic foot morphology will provide increased compatibility between the spacesuit and operator. 
The gold-standard of performance for EVA mobility would be an unpressurized hiking boot. 
Current MK III boots feature only a convoluted ankle joint [@Ross2002], which can be constructed as a pressurized hiking boot with a convoluted ankle joint.
The prototype will be compared against these two boot options, essentially testing the effects of boot pressurization with ankle mobility and the midfoot indexing feature designed in Specific Aim 3.
The prototype will be mated to a glovebox to allow for pressurized testing. 
It is also desirable to test the prototype with subjects walking in the lab, which will require a shank-mounted pressure seal in place of a full spacesuit. 
It may not be feasible to maintain this pressurized seal while subjects are ambulating. 
Regardless of test-setup, the main objectives of this work are:

- Construct interface between test boots and test environments
- Evaluate the mobility of the novel design against a standard hiking boot and pressurized hiking boot
- Evaluate the comfort of the novel design against a standard hiking boot and pressurized hiking boot
- Evaluate the novel design for its ability to reduce instances of heel lift against a standard hiking boot and pressurized hiking boot



## Test Interface Construction

Interfaces will need to be constructed between the boots to be tested and the test environments, as shown in [@fig:SA4-interface] . 
For the glovebox testing, the interface will need to allow for pressurization of the prototype boot and the MK III boot. 
When a vacuum is pulled inside the glovebox, the boot will become pressurized with the ambient air. 
The standard hiking boot will also need an interface to the glovebox to offer similar testing conditions, but will not need to be pressurized. 

Another potential interface will be mate the pressurized boots to the shank of the wearer.
This interface will require some sort of seal above the wearer's ankle. 
Due to expected imperfections in the seal, the boot will most likely be fed with constant pressurized air to maintain a constant pressure. 
This interface will first be tested on the prototype iterations constructed in SA3 before being incorporated into the final prototype and pressurized hiking boot. 

![Two interface designs that will be prototyped in this thesis. (Left): Glovebox interface where a interface (red) connects the boot to the vacuum environment of the glovebox. (Right): Shank interface, where a seal (red) will be developed to tightly fit around the shank of the wearer, with a compressed air line entering the boot to pressurize it.](../fig/SA4/InterfaceDesign.png){#fig:SA4-interface width="100%"}

## Experimental Design
The hypotheses tested in this aim are as follows:

- The novel boot design will provide equivalent mobility compared to the standard hiking boot and improved mobility compared to the pressurized hiking boot
- The novel boot design will provide equivalent comfort compared to the standard hiking boot and improved comfort compared to the pressurized hiking boot
- The novel boot design will induce the same number of instances of heel lift as the hiking boot and fewer instances of heel lift compared to the pressurized hiking boot

The independent variables used to test these hypothesis will be the different boots tested: the standard hiking boot, the pressurized hiking boot (representing current planetary spacesuit boot technology), and the novel spacesuit boot developed in SA3. 
The dependent variables tested will be the range-of-motion of the ankle joint, subjective survey results, and counts of heel-lift in a standardized trial. 
Range-of-motion will be measured with photogrammetry, taken from the front and side profile, and used to assess mobility. 
Subjective surveys will be provided to the subject to fill after finishing the range-of-motion tests. 
The Corlett-Bishop Discomfort Scale [@Corlett1976], Rating of Perceived Exertion Survey [@Borg1982],  and Gravity compensation and performance scale (GCPS) [@Gernhardt2009;@Norcross2009;@Norcross2010] will be used to assess subjective comfort of the boots. 
Findings from Specific Aim 1 showed that IMUs may not be appropriate for detecting instances of heel-lift. 
Therefore, a force sensor will be placed in the heel of the boot, in as minimally intrusive position as possible, to detect instances of heel-lift. 
If possible, a sensor which can measure distance between the sole and heel will be selected for this application. 
Instances of heel-lift will also be correlated to subjective comments, and future work may use the selected sensor to validate IMU usage in detecting heel-lift in the spacesuit. 

Subjects will be recruited for this study whose feet fit the defined foot measure range of the novel spacesuit boot developed in SA3. 
Subjects will be prescreened for their foot measures prior to being enrolled in the study. 
A minimum of 5 subjects will be enrolled in this study. 
The order in which a subject tests each boot will be counterbalanced to avoid carryover and fatigue effects. 

All three boots will be mated to the glovebox, and a vacuum will be pulled for both pressurized boots to allow ambient air to pressurize them.
The glovebox will be placed on the ground, with the subject in a standing posture.
The subject will perform range-of-motion tests of their ankle inside the glovebox.
Motions will be performed both unloaded, where the boot is free in the air, and loaded, where the boot is pushing against a flat floor.
This is consistent with previous planetary boot testing methodology [@Ross2002].
The subject will also perform a series of heel lifts to test for heel-lift. 

## Stretch Testing Goals
The glovebox testing will provide initial insight into comfort and mobility, but will be limited in translation as it does not include walking. 
If a pressurized seal around the ankle is achievable, a biomechanical walking evaluation of the three boots can occur.
These evaluations will also be dependent on access to collaborators' lab facilities with force plates and optical motion capture. 
The boot will be pressurized through a portable compressor, with a pressure line running to the subject and routed to the boot. 
The stated hypotheses and independent variables will remain the same for walking testing, but joint torques will be added as a dependent variable. 

Walking will occur on a flat walkway, where the subject will walk across force plates to measure ground reaction forces. 
Optical motion capture will be used to capture segment kinematics of the lower torso, allowing for calculation of joint range-of-motions for mobility assessment. 
A kinetic analysis from the kinematics and ground reaction forces can provide information on joint torques at the ankle, knee, and pelvis.
The aforementioned subjective surveys will be administered following data collection with each boot. 

Suited testing will be pursued through collaborators at David Clark or NASA Johnson Space Center. 
If spacesuit access is granted, the prototype will be integrated into the spacesuit through an ankle bearing assembly. 
Testing procedures will mirror those described previously with walking tests. 

## Summary

This work will evaluate the fit and mobility of the boot designed in Specific Aim 3. 
Results from this work will directly inform the performance of a boot designed with body-shape modeling techniques. 
This work will not be started until Specific Aim 3 is complete, as it depends on the delivery of the prototype boot. 